Add Git and GitHub section to SOP (#52)
emlab-ucsb/SOP: 04-gh/index.qmd

# Git and GitHub

Git and GitHub are universal requirements for all emLab coding projects. *Git* is a version control system that tracks changes to your code on your local computer, maintaining a complete history of every modification. When you use Git, a complete history of all the changes made to your code are stored in a folder alongside your project files, known as a *repository* (or "repo"). *GitHub* is the online platform where we host these repositories and collaborate with others using tools for code review and project management. In short: Git is the tool you use locally to track changes, while GitHub is where you store and share those repositories with your team.

Why Git and GitHub?

- **Promotes transparency and reproducibility** by preserving a complete, time-stamped history of changes and making it easy to recover earlier versions.
- **Improves code quality** by encouraging small, reviewable changes to code.
- **Enables collaboration** by letting multiple contributors work in parallel with branches, pull requests, and structured code review.
- **Supports safer development** through branch protection and required code reviews before changes are merged.

> - **Strengthens project management** with Issues, milestones, labels, and project boards for planning and tracking work.
> - **Reduces risk of data and code loss** by backing up repositories remotely and enabling reliable rollback when mistakes happen.
> - **Creates clear documentation of decisions** through commit messages, issue threads, and pull request conversations.
> - **Speeds onboarding** because new team members can quickly understand project history and current priorities.
> - **Supports open and reproducible science** by making methods, analysis code, and revision history accessible to collaborators, reviewers, future researchers, and the public.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Promotes transparency and reproducibility** by preserving a complete, time-stamped history of changes and making it easy to recover earlier versions.
- **Improves code quality** by protecting a working version as new features are developed and refined.
- **Enables collaboration** by letting multiple contributors plan their approach and work in parallel with Issues, branches, pull requests, and structured code review.
- **Speeds onboarding** because new team members can quickly understand project history and current priorities.
- **Supports open and reproducible science** by making methods, analysis code, and revision history accessible to collaborators, reviewers, future researchers, and the public.
```
